included how to configure alerts for watermark and resolve it (#164)
GovTechSG/stackops-docs: watermark-limit.md

# Watermark limits

Every node has only a specific amount of data storage capacity (threshold) and as the data of your logs and metrics continue to grow, they will quickly fill up the nodes and eventually the nodes will run out of disk space. This critical issue is also known as the watermark limit or watermark issues. 

> The disk watermark in Elasticsearch consists of two important parameters: high and low watermarks, which ensure there's enough space on the disk for Elasticsearch to function as required. For StackOps users, by default, the watermark limit is between 85% (low) - 90% (high).

Author: The disk watermark in Elasticsearch consists of two important thresholds: high and low watermarks, which represent the lower and upper bound respectively. By default, these limits are set to **85% for low** and **90% for high** to warn of the possibility of disk usage reaching full capacity.

> The disk watermark in Elasticsearch consists of two important parameters: high and low watermarks, which ensure there's enough space on the disk for Elasticsearch to function as required. For StackOps users, by default, the watermark limit is between 85% (low) - 90% (high).

Author: after aligning with Wen An, have used Thresholds instead of forms.

?> **Note** For more information on Watermark Limits, refer to [Disk-based shard allocation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/modules-cluster.html#disk-based-shard-allocation).

## Impact of watermark limits

As data fills up on your nodes and reaches the watermark limits, you may experience the following:

- Shards get unassigned leading to a disruption in the ingestion(*write block*) of logs and metrics.

- If you ignore the watermark limits for an extended period, Kibana can become inaccessible. 

> Elasticsearch automatically removes the *write block* when the affected node's disk usage drops below the high disk watermark. To achieve this, Elasticsearch moves some of the affected node's shards to other nodes within the same data tier.

Author: Whenever possible, it will try to rebalance the shards to the same data tier. However, this is not always possible, which can result in a watermark issue.

> Elasticsearch automatically removes the *write block* when the affected node's disk usage drops below the high disk watermark. Whenever possible, it will try to rebalance the shards to the same data tier. However, this is not always possible, which can result in a watermark issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch automatically removes the *write block* when the affected node's disk usage drops below the low disk watermark. Whenever possible, it will try to rebalance the shards to the same data tier. However, this is not always possible, which can result in a watermark issue.
```

> Hence, it is critical to closely monitor and manage the watermark limits to prevent such issues and ensure the smooth operation of your system. You can [configure rules to alert for watermark issues](#configure-watermark-alerts).

Author: We can achieve that by [configuring alerting rules to notify about watermark breaches](#configure-watermark-alerts).

# Watermark limits

Every node has only a specific amount of data storage capacity (threshold) and as the data of your logs and metrics continue to grow, they will quickly fill up the nodes and eventually the nodes will run out of disk space. This critical issue is also known as the watermark limit or watermark issues. 

> The disk watermark in Elasticsearch consists of two important parameters: high and low watermarks, which ensure there's enough space on the disk for Elasticsearch to function as required. For StackOps users, **by default, the watermark limit is between 85% (low) - 90% (high)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Watermark consists of two important parameters: a low and a high percentile. **By default, they are set between 85% (low) - 90% (high)** Once the disk usage goes past the threshold, the cluster will regress into an unhealthy state.
```

> The disk watermark in Elasticsearch consists of two important parameters: high and low watermarks, which ensure there's enough space on the disk for Elasticsearch to function as required. For StackOps users, **by default, the watermark limit is between 85% (low) - 90% (high)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Watermark comes in two form: low or high which represents the lower and upper bound respectively. **By default, this limit is set to 85% for low, and 90% for high to warn the eventuality of disk usage reaching full capacity.**```

## Identify watermark issues

When the disk space reaches the watermark limits, you may start having issues.

**To identify watermark issues**

1. Go to **Kibana** > **Management** > **Dev Tools**. 
2. Run the command:
  ```
  GET _cluster/allocation/explain
  ```

  If the output indicates that the node has **less than the minimum required free space** with **actual used > cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.low** or **actual used > cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.high**, it means you have a watermark issue.

  The following is a sample output that indicates you have a watermark issue.

    ```
    {
      "deciders": [
        {
          "decision": "NO",
          "explanation": "the node is above the high watermark cluster setting [cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.high=90%], having less than the minimum required [6gb] free space, actual free: [4.4gb], actual used: [92.5%]",
          "decider": "disk_threshold"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

> ## Configure watermark alerts

Author: done

   You can identify the current step of the Index ILM and trigger the next step.

> ### Increase disk space

Reviewer: Why do we delete this? It is still a relevant resolution

Author: by mistake, let me bring it back.
